---

copyright:
  years: 2021, 2022
lastupdated: "2022-10-14"

keywords: quantum, Qiskit, runtime, near time compute

subcollection: quantum-computing
---
{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# Sampler class
{: #program-sampler}

Use this class to interact with the Qiskit Runtime Sampler primitive.
{: shortdesc}

## Overview
{: #sampler-overview}

The Sampler primitive returns sample distributions (quasi-probabilities) generated by given circuits executed on the target backend.

The `run()` can be used to submit circuits and parameters to the Sampler primitive.

You are encouraged to use `Session` to open a session, during which you can invoke one or more primitive programs. Jobs submitted within a session are prioritized by the scheduler, and data is cached for efficiency.

For a full, end-to-end example of how to use this primitive, see [Get started with Sampler](/docs/quantum-computing?topic=quantum-computing-example-sampler).

The maximum execution time is 10000 seconds (2.78 hours), unless you set a smaller value in the Session `max_time` parameter (This parameter is experimental).

## Parameters
{: #sampler-parameters}

Sample distributions generated by given circuits executed on the target backend.
- **Input parameters**:
    - **session** (Union[Session, str, IBMBackend, None]) –
        - **Description**: Session in which to call the primitive.

          If an instance of `qiskit_ibm_runtime.IBMBackend` class or string name of a backend is specified, a new session is created for that backend, unless a default session for the backend already exists.

          If `None`, a new session is created using the default saved account and a default backend, unless a default session already exists.
    - **circuits - DEPRECATED**:
        - **Description**: A `QuantumCircuit` or list of objects of type `QuantumCircuit`. The circuits can be parameterized. This parameter is now specified in the `run()` method of the `Sampler` class.
        - **Required**: False
    - **parameters - DEPRECATED**
        - **Type**: array
        - **Description**: Parameters of the quantum circuits. This parameter is now specified in the `run()` method of the `Sampler` class.
        - **Required**: False       
    - **service - DEPRECATED**:
        - **Type**: object
        - **Description**:  Optional instance of the  `qiskit_ibm_runtime.QiskitRuntimeService` class.  Defaults to `QiskitRuntimeService()`, which tries to initialize your default saved account. This parameter can now be specified when you initialize a Session instance.
        - **Required**: False
    - **options**    
        - **Type**: dictionary or `Options` class    
        - **Description**: Runtime settings that control the execution environment.
        - **Required**: False   
            - **backend**: Optional instance of `qiskit_ibm_runtime.IBMBackend` class or string name of backend. If not specified, the least busy backend is used.  This parameter can now be specified when you initialize a Session instance.
    - **skip_transpilation - DEPRECATED**:
        - **Description**: Skip circuit transpilation. The default value is False. This parameter is now specified in the `Options` `transpilation` setting:  `options = Options(transpilation={"skip_transpilation": True})`.
        - **Required**: False.
        
## Example
{: #program-sampler-sample-code}

```Python
from qiskit.test.reference_circuits import ReferenceCircuits
from qiskit_ibm_runtime import QiskitRuntimeService, Session, Sampler

service = QiskitRuntimeService(channel="ibm_cloud")
bell = ReferenceCircuits.bell()

with Session(service) as session:
    sampler = Sampler(session=session)
    sampler.options.resilience_level = 1

    job = sampler.run(bell)
    print(f"Job ID: {job.job_id()}")
    print(f"Job result: {job.result()}")
```
{: codeblock}


## Next steps
{: #next-steps}

- Use the [Getting started guide](/docs/quantum-computing?topic=quantum-computing-get-started) to create an instance and run your first job.
- Review [Get started with the Sampler primitive](/docs/quantum-computing?topic=quantum-computing-example-sampler) for a step-by-step example of using this primitive.
- Use Qiskit [tutorials](https://qiskit.org/documentation/tutorials.html){: external} to learn how to create circuits with Qiskit.
- See the [Qiskit Runtime API Reference](https://qiskit.org/documentation/partners/qiskit_ibm_runtime/apidocs/ibm-runtime.html){: external} for more information.
